.TH ICMD 8 "Version 1.0: 10 Aug 2004"
.SH NAME
ipmiutil_cmd \- a tool to send specific IPMI commands via the command line.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ipmiutil cmd [-pqsx -NUPREFJTVY] bus rsSa netFn/lun cmd [data bytes]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
This
.I ipmiutil cmd
tool sends specific IPMI commands to the firmware.  The commands
are composed as hex values on the command line.  This tool was
written to allow in-band use to match the DOS CMDTOOL.EXE or
IPMITOOL.EXE program which is distributed with many Intel servers.
Certain scripts or pre-written commands may have been supplied for
the DOS tool that can now be used while the system is running
Linux or Windows.

This utility can use either the /dev/ipmi0 driver from OpenIPMI,
the /dev/imb driver from Intel, the /dev/ipmikcs driver from valinux,
direct user-space IOs, or the IPMI LAN interface if \-N.

This tool should only be used if you are familiar with the IPMI 1.5
specification, or you have specific pre-written commands to send.


.SH OPTIONS
Command line options are described below.
.IP "-p"
Port to use.  Defaults to RMCP port 623.
.IP "-q"
Quiet mode.  Show only minimal header information.
.IP "-s"
Skips the GetDeviceID command
.IP "-x"
Causes extra debug messages to be displayed.
.IP "-N nodename"
Nodename or IP address of the remote target system.  If a nodename is
specified, IPMI LAN interface is used.  Otherwise the local system
management interface is used.
.IP "-U rmt_user"
Remote username for the nodename given.  The default is a null username.
.IP "-P/-R rmt_pswd"
Remote password for the nodename given.  The default is a null password.
.IP "-E"
Use the remote password from Environment variable IPMI_PASSWORD.
.IP "-F drv_t"
Force the driver type to one of the followng:
imb, va, open, gnu, landesk, lan, lan2, lan2i, kcs, smb.
Note that lan2i means lan2 with intelplus.
The default is to detect any available driver type and use it.
.IP "-J"
Use the specified LanPlus cipher suite (0 thru 17): 0=none/none/none,
1=sha1/none/none, 2=sha1/sha1/none, 3=sha1/sha1/cbc128, 4=sha1/sha1/xrc4_128,
5=sha1/sha1/xrc4_40, 6=md5/none/none, ... 14=md5/md5/xrc4_40.
Default is 3.
.IP "-T"
Use a specified IPMI LAN Authentication Type: 0=None, 1=MD2, 2=MD5, 4=Straight Password, 5=OEM.
.IP "-V"
Use a specified IPMI LAN privilege level. 1=Callback level, 2=User level, 3=Operator level, 4=Administrator level (default), 5=OEM level.
.IP "-Y"
Yes, do prompt the user for the IPMI LAN remote password.
Alternatives for the password are \-E or \-P.

.SH PARAMETERS
The following parameters are used by icmd.  Each is represented as
a two-digit hex byte.  The parameters have no default values.

.IP "bus"
This byte contains the bus number for this command, usually 00.

.IP "rsSa"
This is the resource slave address, usually 0x20 for the BMC.

.IP "netFn/lun"
This byte combines the net Function and Lun.  The 2 low-order bits
are the Lun and the 6 high-order bits are the net Function.
This representation is consistent with the DOS CMDTOOL/IPMITOOL.

.IP "cmd"
This byte contains the IPMI command.

.IP "[data bytes]"
This is a sequence of zero to 16 bytes that represent data bytes
specific to this command.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
icmd 00 20 18 01
.br
Sends the GetDevice ID command to the BMC.
.PP
icmd 00 20 28 43 00 00 ff ff 00 ff
.br
Sends a Get SEL entry command for the last entry in the firmware log.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
ipmiutil(8) ialarms(8) iconfig(8) idiscover(8) ievents(8) ifru(8) igetevent(8) ihealth(8) ilan(8) ireset(8) isel(8) isensor(8) iserial(8) isol(8) iwdt(8)

.SH WARNINGS
See http://ipmiutil.sourceforge.net/ for the latest version of ipmiutil and any bug fix list.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2009  Kontron America, Inc.
.PP
See the file COPYING in the distribution for more details
regarding redistribution.
.PP
This utility is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Andy Cress <arcress at users.sourceforge.net>
.br

