.TH IDCMI 8 "Version 1.0: 02 Feb 2012"
.SH NAME
ipmiutil_dcmi \- handle DCMI functions

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ipmiutil dcmi [-admsx -NUPREFTVY] <function>

.SH DESCRIPTION
This
.I ipmiutil dcmi
subcommand handles DCMI command functions according to the DCMI
specification.

This utility can use either the /dev/ipmi0 driver from OpenIPMI,
the /dev/imb driver from Intel, the /dev/ipmikcs driver from valinux,
direct user-space IOs, or the IPMI LAN interface if \-N.

.SH OPTIONS
Command line options are described below.
.IP "-a string"
Set the DCMI Asset Tag to this string.
.IP "-d string"
Set the DCMI MC ID to this string.
.IP "-m 002000"
Target a specific MC (e.g. bus 00, sa 20, lun 00).
This could be used for PICMG or ATCA blade systems.
The trailing character, if present, indicates SMI addressing if 's',
or IPMB addressing if 'i' or not present.
.IP "-s"
When getting info, also get the DCMI sensor information.
.IP "-x"
Causes extra debug messages to be displayed.
.IP "-N nodename"
Nodename or IP address of the remote target system.  If a nodename is
specified, IPMI LAN interface is used.  Otherwise the local system
management interface is used.
.IP "-U rmt_user"
Remote username for the nodename given.  The default is a null username.
.IP "-P/-R rmt_pswd"
Remote password for the nodename given.  The default is a null password.
.IP "-E"
Use the remote password from Environment variable IPMI_PASSWORD.
.IP "-F drv_t"
Force the driver type to one of the followng:
imb, va, open, gnu, landesk, lan, lan2, lan2i, kcs, smb.
Note that lan2i means lan2 with intelplus.
The default is to detect any available driver type and use it.
.IP "-J"
Use the specified LanPlus cipher suite (0 thru 17): 0=none/none/none,
1=sha1/none/none, 2=sha1/sha1/none, 3=sha1/sha1/cbc128, 4=sha1/sha1/xrc4_128,
5=sha1/sha1/xrc4_40, 6=md5/none/none, ... 14=md5/md5/xrc4_40.
Default is 3.
.IP "-T"
Use a specified IPMI LAN Authentication Type: 0=None, 1=MD2, 2=MD5, 4=Straight Password, 5=OEM.
.IP "-V"
Use a specified IPMI LAN privilege level. 1=Callback level, 2=User level, 3=Operator level, 4=Administrator level (default), 5=OEM level.
.IP "-Y"
Yes, do prompt the user for the IPMI LAN remote password.
Alternatives for the password are \-E or \-P.

.SH FUNCTIONS

.IP "info"
Get DCMI Capabilities, MC ID, and Asset Tag. This is the default function
if no function was specified.

.IP "power    "
Get DCMI Power reading and DCMI Power limit, if supported in the DCMI capabilties.
.IP "power set_limit"
Set Power limit
.IP "power set_action <action>"
Set Power limit exception action
(where action = no_action | power_off | log_sel)
.IP "power set_correction"
Set Power limit correction time (in ms)
.IP "power set_sample"
Set Power limit sampling period (in sec)
.IP "power activate"
Activate Power limit
.IP "power deactivate"
Deactivate Power limit


.IP "thermal"
Get/Set DCMI Thermal parameters.  This requires DCMI 1.5 support.

.IP "config"
Get/Set DCMI Configuration parameters.  This requires DCMI 1.5 support.

.IP "help"
Show the help (usage) message

.SH "EXAMPLES"
ipmiutil dcmi info \-s
.br
Gets DCMI information, plus DCMI sensor information
.PP
ipmiutil dcmi \-N 192.168.1.1 \-U root \-P pswd
.br
Gets DCMI information over IPMI LAN.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
ipmiutil(8) ialarms(8) iconfig(8) idiscover(8) ievents(8) ifru(8) igetevent(8) ihealth(8) ilan(8) ireset(8) isel(8) isensor(8) iserial(8) isol(8) iwdt(8)

.SH WARNINGS
See http://ipmiutil.sourceforge.net/ for the latest version of ipmiutil and any bug fix list.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2010  Kontron America, Inc.
.PP
See the file COPYING in the distribution for more details
regarding redistribution.
.PP
This utility is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Andy Cress <arcress at users.sourceforge.net>
.br

