.TH IDELLOEM 8 "Version 1.0: 17 Aug 2011"
.SH NAME
ipmiutil_delloem \- OEM commands for Dell servers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ipmiutil delloem [-mx -NPRUEFJTVY] commands"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ipmiutil delloem commands
is a program that uses Dell OEM IPMI commands to
perform platform-specific functions.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-m 002000"
Show FRU for a specific MC (e.g. bus 00, sa 20, lun 00).
This could be used for PICMG or ATCA blade systems.
The trailing character, if present, indicates SMI addressing if 's',
or IPMB addressing if 'i' or not present.
.IP "-x"
Causes extra debug messages to be displayed.
.IP "-N nodename"
Nodename or IP address of the remote target system.  If a nodename is
specified, IPMI LAN interface is used.  Otherwise the local system
management interface is used.
.IP "-P/-R rmt_pswd"
Remote password for the nodename given.  The default is a null password.
.IP "-U rmt_user"
Remote username for the nodename given.  The default is a null username.
.IP "-E"
Use the remote password from Environment variable IPMI_PASSWORD.
.IP "-F drv_t"
Force the driver type to one of the followng:
imb, va, open, gnu, landesk, lan, lan2, lan2i, kcs, smb.
Note that lan2i means lan2 with intelplus.
The default is to detect any available driver type and use it.
.IP "-J"
Use the specified LanPlus cipher suite (0 thru 17): 0=none/none/none,
1=sha1/none/none, 2=sha1/sha1/none, 3=sha1/sha1/cbc128, 4=sha1/sha1/xrc4_128,
5=sha1/sha1/xrc4_40, 6=md5/none/none, ... 14=md5/md5/xrc4_40.
Default is 3.
.IP "-T"
Use a specified IPMI LAN Authentication Type: 0=None, 1=MD2, 2=MD5, 4=Straight Password, 5=OEM.
.IP "-V"
Use a specified IPMI LAN privilege level. 1=Callback level, 2=User level, 3=Operator level, 4=Administrator level (default), 5=OEM level.
.IP "-Y"
Yes, do prompt the user for the IPMI LAN remote password.
Alternatives for the password are \-E or \-P.

.SH COMMANDS

.RS
.RE
.TP
\fImac\fP \fIlist\fP
.RS
   Lists the MAC address of LOMs

.RE
.TP
\fImac\fP \fIget\fP <\fBNIC number\fR>
.RS
   Shows the MAC address of specified LOM. 0-7 System LOM, 8- DRAC/iDRAC.

.RE
.TP
\fIlan\fP \fIset\fP <\fBMode\fR>
.RS
   Sets the NIC Selection Mode (dedicated, shared,
       shared with failover lom2, shared with Failover all loms).

.RE
.TP
\fIlan\fP \fIget\fP
.RS
   Returns the current NIC Selection Mode (dedicated, shared,
    shared with failover lom2, shared with Failover all loms).

.RE
.TP
\fIlan\fP \fIget\fP  \fIactive\fP
.RS
   Returns the current active NIC (dedicated, LOM1, LOM2, LOM3, LOM4).

.RE
.TP
\fIpowermonitor\fP
.RS
   Shows power tracking statistics

.RE
.TP
\fIpowermonitor\fP \fIclear\fP  \fIcumulativepower\fP
.RS
   Reset cumulative power reading

.RE
.TP
\fIpowermonitor\fP \fIclear\fP  \fIpeakpower\fP
.RS
   Reset peak power reading

.RE
.TP
\fIpowermonitor\fP \fIpowerconsumption\fP
.RS
   Displays power consumption in <watt|btuphr>

.RE
.TP
\fIpowermonitor\fP \fIpowerconsumptionhistory\fP  <\fBwatt|btuphr\fR>
.RS
   Displays power consumption history

.RE
.TP
\fIpowermonitor\fP \fIgetpowerbudget\fP
.RS
   Displays power cap in <watt|btuphr>

.RE
.TP
\fIpowermonitor\fP \fIsetpowerbudget\fP  <\fBval\fR> <\fBwatt|btuphr|percent\fR>
.RS
   Allows user to set the  power cap in <watt|BTU/hr|percentage>

.RE
.TP
\fIpowermonitor\fP \fIenablepowercap\fP
.RS
   To enable set power cap

.RE
.TP
\fIpowermonitor\fP \fIdisablepowercap\fP
.RS
   To disable set power cap

.RE
.TP
\fIwindbg\fP \fIstart\fP
.RS
   Starts the windbg session (Cold Reset & SOL Activation)

.RE
.TP
\fIwindbg\fP \fIend\fP
.RS
   Ends the windbg session (SOL Deactivation)

.RE
.TP
\fIvFlash\fP \fIinfo\fP \fICard\fP
.RS
   Shows Extended SD Card information
.RE


.SH "SEE ALSO"
ipmiutil(8) ialarms(8) iconfig(8) icmd(8) idiscover(8) ievents(8) ifru(8) igetevent(8) ihealth(8) ilan(8) ireset(8) isel(8) isensor(8) iserial(8) isol(8)

.SH WARNINGS
See http://ipmiutil.sourceforge.net/ for the latest version of ipmiutil and any bug fix list.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2009  Kontron America, Inc.
.PP
See the file COPYING in the distribution for more details
regarding redistribution.
.PP
This utility is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Andy Cress <arcress at users.sourceforge.net>
.br

