.TH IDISCOVER 8 "Version 1.0: 02 May 2007"
.SH NAME
ipmiutil_discover \- discover IPMI LAN-enabled nodes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "idiscover [-abegisx]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I idiscover
is a program that uses IPMI LAN commands to discover any nodes
on the LAN that are available, by probing the RMCP port (623.)
on those nodes.
This utility uses IPMI LAN, so no IPMI drivers are needed.
There are three methods that can be used:
.br
\-a   = broadcast RMCP ping method (default)
.br
\-g   = GetChannelAuthCap command method
.br
else = specific RMCP ping method
.P
A beginning IP address can be specified with \-b for broadcast and specific
methods. An ending IP can be specified for non-broadcast methods.

.SH OPTIONS
Command line options are described below.
.IP "-a"
All nodes, use the broadcast ping method.  This is the default if no options
are specified.  This will detect the first enabled ethernet interface, and
defaults to the broadcast address x.x.x.255 (where x.x.x.x is IP address)
unless \-b is used to specify otherwise.
.IP "-b <ip>"
Beginning IP address, required, unless using broadcast with defaults.
This could be a specific IP address, or a broadcast address, ending in 255,
if the broadcast method (\-a) is used.
.IP "-e <ip>"
Endign IP address of the range.  Not used for broadcast method.
If this is not specified, a range of one IP address matching the beginning
IP is assumed.
.IP "-g"
Use the GetChannelAuthenticationCapabilities command method over IPMI LAN
instead of the RMCP ping.  Not compatible with broadcast.
This may be useful if the vendor BMC does not support RMCP ping for some
reason.
.IP "-i eth0"
The interface name to use when sending the probes.  The default is to
detect the first enabled ethernet interface (e.g. eth0).
.IP "-m"
shows MAC address.  Uses the broadcast ping method, but uses a raw socket
so that the MAC address can be displayed. This detects the first enabled
ethernet interface, and defaults to the broadcast address 255.255.255.255
like \-a.  Using \-m with raw sockets requires root privilege.
.IP "-r N"
Repeat the ping N times to each node.  Default is to send 1 ping per node.
.IP "-x"
Causes extra debug messages to be displayed.


.SH "EXAMPLES"

    idiscover \-a \-b 192.168.1.255
.br
Sends a broadcast RMCP ping to discover IPMI LAN nodes on the specified subnet.
.PP
    idiscover \-b 192.168.1.100 \-e 192.168.1.254
.br
Sends RMCP pings to a range of IP addresses.
.PP
    idiscover \-g \-b 192.168.1.100 \-e 192.168.1.254
.br
Sends GetChannelAuthCap commands to a range of IP addresses.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
ipmiutil(8) ialarms(8) iconfig(8) icmd(8) ievents(8) ifru(8) igetevent(8) ihealth(8) ilan(8) ireset(8) isel(8) isensor(8) iserial(8) isol(8) iwdt(8)

.SH WARNINGS
See http://ipmiutil.sourceforge.net/ for the latest version of ipmiutil and any bug fix list.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2009  Kontron America, Inc.
.PP
See the file COPYING in the distribution for more details
regarding redistribution.
.PP
This utility is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Andy Cress <arcress at users.sourceforge.net>
.br

