.TH IFRUSET 8 "Version 1.0: 14 Apr 2010"
.SH NAME
ifruset \- show/set Field Replacable Unit configuration data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ifruset [-bcimx -unpvsafo -N node -U user -P/-R pswd -EFJTVY]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ifruset
is a program that uses IPMI commands to 
show FRU configuration data and optionally
write any Product area fields into the FRU data.
Setting the FRU Product area fields is a function
that might be done by a manufacturer or system integrator.
This utility can use either the /dev/ipmi0 driver from OpenIPMI,
the /dev/imb driver from Intel, the /dev/ipmikcs driver from valinux,
direct user-space IOs, or the IPMI LAN interface if -N.  

This program is not built or installed by default.   
Integrators who wish to use it should build ipmiutil from source,
then do 'cd util; make ifruset'.  

.SH OPTIONS
Command line options are described below.
.IP "-u manuf" 
This option specifies a product manufacturer string to be written 
to the baseboard FRU Product area field 0.  This field can be 
any string up to 20 characters.  The default is to not modify this FRU field.
.IP "-n name" 
This option specifies a product name string to be written 
to the baseboard FRU Product area field 1.  This field can be 
any string up to 20 characters. The default is to not modify this FRU field.
.IP "-p partnum" 
This option specifies a product part number string to be written 
to the baseboard FRU Product area field 2.  This field can be 
any string up to 20 characters. The default is to not modify this FRU field.
.IP "-v prod_ver"
This option specifies a product version number string to be written 
to the baseboard FRU Product area field 3.  The version number can be 
any string up to 20 characters. The default is to not modify this FRU field.
.IP "-s serial_num"
This option specifies a serial number string to be written 
to the baseboard FRU Product area field 4.  The serial number can be 
any string up to 20 characters. The default is to not modify this FRU field.
.IP "-a asset_string"
This option specifies an asset tag string to be written
to the baseboard FRU Product area field 5.  The asset tag length is 
limited by the existing FRU Product data, but is usually 
allowed up to 20 characters.   The default is to not modify this FRU field.
.IP "-f fruid" 
This option specifies a product FRU file ID string to be written 
to the baseboard FRU Product area field 6.  This field can be 
any string up to 20 characters.
.IP "-o oem" 
This option specifies a product OEM field string to be written 
to the baseboard FRU Product area field 7.  This field can be 
any string up to 20 characters.

.IP "-b" 
Only show the Baseboard FRU data.  The default behavior is to also scan
for any SDR FRU data or DIMM SPD data referenced by the SDRs.
.IP "-c" 
Show FRU output in a canonical format, with a default delimiter of '|'.
.IP "-i 00" 
This option specifies a specific FRU ID to show.  The input value should be
in hex (0b, 1a, etc.), as shown from the sensor SDR output.
By default, all FRU IDs that are specified in the FRU locator SDRs are shown.
.IP "-m 002000"
Show FRU for a specific MC (e.g. bus 00, sa 20, lun 00).
This could be used for PICMG or ATCA blade systems.
The trailing character, if present, indicates SMI addressing if 's',
or IPMB addressing if 'i' or not present.
.IP "-x"
Causes eXtra debug messages to be displayed.
.IP "-y"
Ignore the check for FRU size overflow, and update the FRU anyway.
.IP "-N nodename"
Nodename or IP address of the remote target system.  If a nodename is
specified, IPMI LAN interface is used.  Otherwise the local system
management interface is used.
.IP "-U rmt_user"
Remote username for the nodename given.  The default is a null username.
.IP "-P/-R rmt_pswd"
Remote password for the nodename given.  The default is a null password.
.IP "-E"
Use the remote password from Environment variable IPMI_PASSWORD.
.IP "-F drv_t"
Force the driver type to one of the followng:  
imb, va, open, gnu, landesk, lan, lan2, lan2i, kcs, smb.
Note that lan2i means lan2 with intelplus.
The default is to detect any available driver type and use it.
.IP "-J"
Use the specified LanPlus cipher suite (0 thru 17): 0=none/none/none,
1=sha1/none/none, 2=sha1/sha1/none, 3=sha1/sha1/cbc128, 4=sha1/sha1/xrc4_128,
5=sha1/sha1/xrc4_40, 6=md5/none/none, ... 14=md5/md5/xrc4_40.
Default is 3.
.IP "-T"
Use a specified IPMI LAN Authentication Type: 0=None, 1=MD2, 2=MD5, 4=Straight Password, 5=OEM.
.IP "-V"
Use a specified IPMI LAN privilege level. 1=Callback level, 2=User level, 3=Operator level, 4=Administrator level (default), 5=OEM level.
.IP "-Y"
Yes, do prompt the user for the IPMI LAN remote password.
Alternatives for the password are -E or -P.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
ipmiutil(8) ialarms(8) iconfig(8) icmd(8) idiscover(8) ievents(8) igetevent(8) ihealth(8) ilan(8) ireset(8) isel(8) isensor(8) iserial(8) isol(8) iwdt(8) 

.SH WARNINGS
See http://ipmiutil.sourceforge.net/ for the latest version of ipmiutil and any bug fix list. 

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2009  Kontron America, Inc.
.PP
See the file COPYING in the distribution for more details
regarding redistribution.
.PP
This utility is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Andy Cress <arcress at users.sourceforge.net>
.br

