.TH IFWUM 8 "Version 1.0: 24 Aug 2010"
.SH NAME
ipmiutil_fwum \- Update IPMC using Kontron OEM Firmware Update Manager

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ipmiutil fwum [-mixNUPREFJTVY] parameters"

.SH DESCRIPTION
This
.I ipmiutil fwum
subcommand updates IPMC firmware using Kontron OEM Firmware Update Manager.

This utility can use either the /dev/ipmi0 driver from OpenIPMI,
the /dev/imb driver from Intel, the /dev/ipmikcs driver from valinux,
direct user-space IOs, or the IPMI LAN interface if \-N.

.SH OPTIONS
Command line options are described below.
.IP "-i 00"
This option specifies a specific FRU ID to show.  The input value should be
in hex (0b, 1a, etc.), as shown from the sensor SDR output.
The default FRU ID is zero (0).
.IP "-m 002000"
Show FRU for a specific MC (e.g. bus 00, sa 20, lun 00).
This could be used for PICMG or ATCA blade systems.
The trailing character, if present, indicates SMI addressing if 's',
or IPMB addressing if 'i' or not present.
.IP "-x"
Causes extra debug messages to be displayed.
.IP "-N nodename"
Nodename or IP address of the remote target system.  If a nodename is
specified, IPMI LAN interface is used.  Otherwise the local system
management interface is used.
.IP "-U rmt_user"
Remote username for the nodename given.  The default is a null username.
.IP "-P/-R rmt_pswd"
Remote password for the nodename given.  The default is a null password.
.IP "-E"
Use the remote password from Environment variable IPMI_PASSWORD.
.IP "-F drv_t"
Force the driver type to one of the followng:
imb, va, open, gnu, landesk, lan, lan2, lan2i, kcs, smb.
Note that lan2i means lan2 with intelplus.
The default is to detect any available driver type and use it.
.IP "-J"
Use the specified LanPlus cipher suite (0 thru 17): 0=none/none/none,
1=sha1/none/none, 2=sha1/sha1/none, 3=sha1/sha1/cbc128, 4=sha1/sha1/xrc4_128,
5=sha1/sha1/xrc4_40, 6=md5/none/none, ... 14=md5/md5/xrc4_40.
Default is 3.
.IP "-T"
Use a specified IPMI LAN Authentication Type: 0=None, 1=MD2, 2=MD5, 4=Straight Password, 5=OEM.
.IP "-V"
Use a specified IPMI LAN privilege level. 1=Callback level, 2=User level, 3=Operator level, 4=Administrator level (default), 5=OEM level.
.IP "-Y"
Yes, do prompt the user for the IPMI LAN remote password.
Alternatives for the password are \-E or \-P.

.SH PARAMETERS
\fIfwum\fP \fBparameters\fR
.RS

.TP
\fIinfo\fP
.br
Show information about current firmware.

.TP
\fIstatus\fP
.br
Show status of each firmware bank present in the hardware.

.TP
\fIdownload\fP \fBfilename\fR
.br
Download the specified firmware image.

.TP
\fIupgrade\fP [\fBfilename\fR]
.br
Install firmware upgrade.  If the filename is specified,
the file is downloaded first, otherwise the last firmware
downloaded is used.

.TP
\fIrollback\fP
.br
Ask IPMC to rollback to previous version.

.TP
\fItracelog\fP
.br
Show the firmware upgrade log.


.SH "EXAMPLES"
ipmiutil fwum info
.br
Gets Firmware information
.PP
ipmiutil fwum \-N 192.168.1.1 \-U root \-P pswd download firmware.img
.br
Downloads the firmware version contained in firmware.img over IPMI LAN.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
ipmiutil(8) ialarms(8) iconfig(8) idiscover(8) ievents(8) ifru(8) igetevent(8) ihealth(8) ilan(8) ireset(8) isel(8) isensor(8) iserial(8) isol(8) iwdt(8)

.SH WARNINGS
See http://ipmiutil.sourceforge.net/ for the latest version of ipmiutil and any bug fix list.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2010  Kontron America, Inc.
.PP
See the file COPYING in the distribution for more details
regarding redistribution.
.PP
This utility is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Andy Cress <arcress at users.sourceforge.net>
.br

