.TH IHEALTH 8 "Version 1.1: 17 Feb 2010"
.SH NAME
ipmiutil_health\- show IPMI health
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ipmiutil health [-ifhglmnopqsx -N node -U user -P/-R pswd -EFJTVY]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ipmiutil health
is a program that uses IPMI commands to
show the health of the BMC.
This utility can use either the /dev/ipmi0 driver from OpenIPMI,
the /dev/imb driver from Intel, the /dev/ipmikcs driver from valinux,
direct user-space IOs, or the IPMI LAN interface if \-N.

.SH OPTIONS
Command line options are described below.

.IP "-c"
Show canonical, delimited output.
.IP "-f"
Show the FRUSDR version also.
.IP "-g"
Show the IPMI GUID of this system.  The GUID is a read-only unique identifier.
.IP "-h"
Check the health of the HotSwap Controller also.
.IP "-l"
Show the IPMI LAN channel statistics also.
.IP "-m 002000"
Target a specific MC (e.g. bus 00, sa 20, lun 00).
This could be used for PICMG or ATCA blade systems.
The trailing character, if present, indicates SMI addressing if 's',
or IPMB addressing if 'i' or not present.
.IP "-n string"
Set the System Name to this string in the IPMI System Information.
.IP "-o string"
Set the Primary Operating System to this string in the IPMI System Information.
.IP "-p 1"
Set the chassis Power restore policy, governing the desired behavior when power was lost and is restored.  Values: 0 = stay off, 1 = last state, 2 = always on.
.IP "-q string"
Set the Secondary Operating System to this string in the IPMI System Information.
.IP "-s"
Show the IPMI Session information also.
.IP "-x"
Causes extra debug messages to be displayed.
.IP "-N nodename"
Nodename or IP address of the remote target system.  If a nodename is
specified, IPMI LAN interface is used.  Otherwise the local system
management interface is used.
.IP "-P/-R rmt_pswd"
Remote password for the nodename given.  The default is a null password.
.IP "-U rmt_user"
Remote username for the nodename given.  The default is a null username.
.IP "-E"
Use the remote password from Environment variable IPMI_PASSWORD.
.IP "-F drv_t"
Force the driver type to one of the followng:
imb, va, open, gnu, landesk, lan, lan2, lan2i, kcs, smb.
Note that lan2i means lan2 with intelplus.
The default is to detect any available driver type and use it.
.IP "-J"
Use the specified LanPlus cipher suite (0 thru 17): 0=none/none/none,
1=sha1/none/none, 2=sha1/sha1/none, 3=sha1/sha1/cbc128, 4=sha1/sha1/xrc4_128,
5=sha1/sha1/xrc4_40, 6=md5/none/none, ... 14=md5/md5/xrc4_40.
Default is 3.
.IP "-T"
Use a specified IPMI LAN Authentication Type: 0=None, 1=MD2, 2=MD5, 4=Straight Password, 5=OEM.
.IP "-V"
Use a specified IPMI LAN privilege level. 1=Callback level, 2=User level, 3=Operator level, 4=Administrator level (default), 5=OEM level.
.IP "-Y"
Yes, do prompt the user for the IPMI LAN remote password.
Alternatives for the password are \-E or \-P.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
ipmiutil(8) ialarms(8) iconfig(8) icmd(8) idiscover(8) ievents(8) ifru(8) igetevent(8) ilan(8) ireset(8) isel(8) isensor(8) iserial(8) isol(8) iwdt(8)

.SH WARNINGS
See http://ipmiutil.sourceforge.net/ for the latest version of ipmiutil and any bug fix list.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2009  Kontron America, Inc.
.PP
See the file COPYING in the distribution for more details
regarding redistribution.
.PP
This utility is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Andy Cress <arcress at users.sourceforge.net>
.br

