.TH IHPM 8 "Version 1.0: 25 Aug 2010"
.SH NAME
ipmiutil_hpm \- PICMG HPM.1 Upgrade Agent

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ipmiutil hpm [-mxNUPREFJTVY] parameters"

.SH DESCRIPTION
This
.I ipmiutil hpm
subcommand updates HPM components using PICMG HPM.1 file

This utility can use either the /dev/ipmi0 driver from OpenIPMI,
the /dev/imb driver from Intel, the /dev/ipmikcs driver from valinux,
direct user-space IOs, or the IPMI LAN interface if \-N.

.SH OPTIONS
Command line options are described below.
.IP "-m 002000"
Target a specific MC (e.g. bus 00, sa 20, lun 00).
This could be used for PICMG or ATCA blade systems.
The trailing character, if present, indicates SMI addressing if 's',
or IPMB addressing if 'i' or not present.
.IP "-x"
Causes extra debug messages to be displayed.
.IP "-N nodename"
Nodename or IP address of the remote target system.  If a nodename is
specified, IPMI LAN interface is used.  Otherwise the local system
management interface is used.
.IP "-U rmt_user"
Remote username for the nodename given.  The default is a null username.
.IP "-P/-R rmt_pswd"
Remote password for the nodename given.  The default is a null password.
.IP "-E"
Use the remote password from Environment variable IPMI_PASSWORD.
.IP "-F drv_t"
Force the driver type to one of the followng:
imb, va, open, gnu, landesk, lan, lan2, lan2i, kcs, smb.
Note that lan2i means lan2 with intelplus.
The default is to detect any available driver type and use it.
.IP "-J"
Use the specified LanPlus cipher suite (0 thru 17): 0=none/none/none,
1=sha1/none/none, 2=sha1/sha1/none, 3=sha1/sha1/cbc128, 4=sha1/sha1/xrc4_128,
5=sha1/sha1/xrc4_40, 6=md5/none/none, ... 14=md5/md5/xrc4_40.
Default is 3.
.IP "-T"
Use a specified IPMI LAN Authentication Type: 0=None, 1=MD2, 2=MD5, 4=Straight Password, 5=OEM.
.IP "-V"
Use a specified IPMI LAN privilege level. 1=Callback level, 2=User level, 3=Operator level, 4=Administrator level (default), 5=OEM level.
.IP "-Y"
Yes, do prompt the user for the IPMI LAN remote password.
Alternatives for the password are \-E or \-P.

.SH PARAMETERS
\fIhpm\fP \fBparameters\fR
.RS

.TP
\fIcheck\fR
.br
Check the target information.

.TP
\fIcheck\fP \fBfilename\fR
.br
Display both the existing target version and image version on the screen.

.TP
\fIdownload\fP \fBfilename\fR
.br
Download specified firmware.

.TP
\fIupgrade\fP \fBfilename\fR [\fBall\fR] [\fBcomponent x\fR] [\fBactivate\fR]
.br
Upgrade the firmware using a valid HPM.1 image file. If no option is specified,
the firmware versions are checked first and the firmware is upgraded only if they
are different.

.RS
.TP
\fIall\fR
.br
Upgrade all components even if the firmware versions are the same
(use this only after using "check" command).

.TP
\fIcomponent\fP \fBx\fR
.br
Upgrade only given component from the given file.
.br
component 0 - BOOT
.br
component 1 - RTK

.TP
\fIactivate\fR
.br
Activate new firmware right away.

.RE

.TP
\fIactivate\fR
.br
Activate the newly uploaded firmware.

.TP
\fItargetcap\fR
.br
Get the target upgrade capabilities.

.TP
\fIcompprop\fP \fBid\fR \fBopt\fR
.br
Get the specified component properties. Valid component \fBid\fR: 0-7.
\fBOpt\fR can be one of following:
.br
0 - General properties
.br
1 - Current firmware version
.br
2 - Description string
.br
3 - Rollback firmware version
.br
4 - Deferred firmware version

.TP
\fIabort\fR
.br
Abort the on-going firmware upgrade.

.TP
\fIupgstatus\fR
.br
Show status of the last long duration command.

.TP
\fIrollback\fR
.br
Perform manual rollback on the IPM Controller firmware.

.TP
\fIrollbackstatus\fR
.br
Show the rollback status.

.TP
\fIselftestresult\fR
.br
Query the self test results.

.RE

.SH "EXAMPLES"
ipmiutil hpm targetcap
.br
Gets HPM target capabilities
.PP
ipmiutil hpm \-N 192.168.1.1 \-U root \-P pswd download firmware.img
.br
Downloads the HPM firmware version contained in firmware.img over IPMI LAN.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
ipmiutil(8) ialarms(8) iconfig(8) idiscover(8) ievents(8) ifru(8) igetevent(8) ihealth(8) ilan(8) ireset(8) isel(8) isensor(8) iserial(8) isol(8) iwdt(8)

.SH WARNINGS
See http://ipmiutil.sourceforge.net/ for the latest version of ipmiutil and any bug fix list.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2010  Kontron America, Inc.
.PP
See the file COPYING in the distribution for more details
regarding redistribution.
.PP
This utility is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Andy Cress <arcress at users.sourceforge.net>
.br

