.TH IPICMG 8 "Version 1.0: 04 Jun 2010"
.SH NAME
ipmiutil_picmg \- send specific PICMG extended IPMI commands

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ipmiutil picmg [-mixNUPREFJTVY] parameters"

.SH DESCRIPTION
This
.I ipmiutil picmg
subcommand sends specific PICMG/ATCA extended IPMI commands to the firmware.

This utility can use either the /dev/ipmi0 driver from OpenIPMI,
the /dev/imb driver from Intel, the /dev/ipmikcs driver from valinux,
direct user-space IOs, or the IPMI LAN interface if \-N.

.SH OPTIONS
Command line options are described below.
.IP "-i 00"
This option specifies a specific FRU ID to show.  The input value should be
in hex (0b, 1a, etc.), as shown from the sensor SDR output.
The default FRU ID is zero (0).
.IP "-m 002000"
Show FRU for a specific MC (e.g. bus 00, sa 20, lun 00).
This could be used for PICMG or ATCA blade systems.
The trailing character, if present, indicates SMI addressing if 's',
or IPMB addressing if 'i' or not present.
.IP "-x"
Causes extra debug messages to be displayed.
.IP "-N nodename"
Nodename or IP address of the remote target system.  If a nodename is
specified, IPMI LAN interface is used.  Otherwise the local system
management interface is used.
.IP "-U rmt_user"
Remote username for the nodename given.  The default is a null username.
.IP "-P/-R rmt_pswd"
Remote password for the nodename given.  The default is a null password.
.IP "-E"
Use the remote password from Environment variable IPMI_PASSWORD.
.IP "-F drv_t"
Force the driver type to one of the followng:
imb, va, open, gnu, landesk, lan, lan2, lan2i, kcs, smb.
Note that lan2i means lan2 with intelplus.
The default is to detect any available driver type and use it.
.IP "-J"
Use the specified LanPlus cipher suite (0 thru 17): 0=none/none/none,
1=sha1/none/none, 2=sha1/sha1/none, 3=sha1/sha1/cbc128, 4=sha1/sha1/xrc4_128,
5=sha1/sha1/xrc4_40, 6=md5/none/none, ... 14=md5/md5/xrc4_40.
Default is 3.
.IP "-T"
Use a specified IPMI LAN Authentication Type: 0=None, 1=MD2, 2=MD5, 4=Straight Password, 5=OEM.
.IP "-V"
Use a specified IPMI LAN privilege level. 1=Callback level, 2=User level, 3=Operator level, 4=Administrator level (default), 5=OEM level.
.IP "-Y"
Yes, do prompt the user for the IPMI LAN remote password.
Alternatives for the password are \-E or \-P.

.SH PARAMETERS
\fIpicmg\fP \fBparameters\fR
.RS

.TP
\fIproperties\fP
Get PICMG properties may be used to
obtain and print Extension major version information, PICMG identifier,
FRU Device ID and Max FRU Device ID.

.TP
\fIaddrinfo\fP
.br

Get address information.  This command may return information on the Hardware
address, IPMB-0 Address, FRU ID, Site/Entity ID, and Site/Entity Type.
.TP
\fIfrucontrol\fP \fBfru id\fR \fBoptions\fR
.br

Set various control options:
.RS
.TP
\fI0x00\fP      - Cold Reset
.br
.TP
\fI0x01\fP      - Warm Reset
.br
.TP
\fI0x02\fP      - Graceful Reboot
.br
.TP
\fI0x03\fP      - Issue Diagnostic Interrupt
.br
.TP
\fI0x04\fP      - Quiesce [AMC only]
.br
.TP
\fI0x05-0xFF\fP - Cold Reset
.br
.RE
.TP
\fIactivate\fP \fBfru id\fR
.br

Activate the specified FRU.
.TP
\fIdeactivate\fP \fBfru id\fR
.br

Deactivate the specified FRU.
.TP
\fIpolicy\fP \fIget\fP \fBfru id\fR
.br

Get FRU activation policy.
.TP
\fIpolicy\fP \fIset\fP \fBfru id\fR \fBlockmask\fR \fBlock\fR
.br

Set FRU activation policy.  \fBlockmask\fR is 1 or 0 to indicate action
on the deactivation or activation locked bit respectively.  \fBlock\fR is
1 or 0 to set/clear locked bit.
.TP
\fIportstate\fP \fBset\fR|\fBgetall\fR|\fBgetgranted\fR|\fBgetdenied\fR \fBparameters\fR
.br

Get or set various port states.  See usage for parameter details.



.SH "EXAMPLES"
ipmiutil picmg properties
.br
Gets PICMG properties from the default target address (slave address 0x20).
.PP
ipmiutil picmg \-N 192.168.1.1 \-U root \-P pswd addrinfo
.br
Gets PICMG Address Information from the specified IP address.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
ipmiutil(8) ialarms(8) iconfig(8) idiscover(8) ievents(8) ifru(8) igetevent(8) ihealth(8) ilan(8) ireset(8) isel(8) isensor(8) iserial(8) isol(8) iwdt(8)

.SH WARNINGS
See http://ipmiutil.sourceforge.net/ for the latest version of ipmiutil and any bug fix list.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2010  Kontron America, Inc.
.PP
See the file COPYING in the distribution for more details
regarding redistribution.
.PP
This utility is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Andy Cress <arcress at users.sourceforge.net>
.br

