.TH IPMIUTIL 8 "Version 1.1: 10 May 2012"
.SH NAME
ipmiutil \- a meta-command to invoke various IPMI functions.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ipmiutil <command> [-x -NUPREFJTVY] [other command options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility performs various IPMI functions.   Each of the individual
commands in the ipmiutil project can be invoked via this meta-command.
The <command> is one of the following:
   alarms   show/set the front panel alarm LEDs and relays
   leds     show/set the front panel alarm LEDs and relays
   cmd      send a specified raw IPMI command to the BMC
   config   list/save/restore BMC configuration parameters
   dcmi     get/set DCMI parameters
   discover    discover all IPMI servers on this LAN
   ekanalyzer  run FRU-EKeying analyzer on FRU files (deprecated, see fru)
   events   decode IPMI events and display them
   firewall show/set firmware firewall functions
   fru      show decoded FRU inventory data, write asset tag
   fwum     OEM firmware update manager extensions
   getevt   get IPMI events and display them, event daemon
   getevent get IPMI events and display them, event daemon
   health   check and show the basic health of the IPMI BMC
   hpm      HPM firmware update manager extensions
   lan      show/set IPMI LAN parameters and PEF table
   picmg    show/set picmg extended functions
   reset    cause the BMC to reset or power down the system
   sel      show/clear firmware System Event Log records
   sensor   show Sensor Data Records, readings, thresholds
   serial   show/set IPMI Serial & Terminal Mode parameters
   sol      start/stop an SOL console session
   smcoem   SuperMicro OEM functions
   sunoem   Sun OEM functions
   delloem  Dell OEM functions
   tsol     Tyan SOL console start/stop session
   wdt      show/set/reset the watchdog timer
.br
For help on each command (e.g. 'sel'), enter:
   ipmiutil sel -?
.br
For man pages on each command, its man page is named "i<command>", 
or refer to SEE ALSO below.

.br
This utility can use either the /dev/ipmi0 driver from OpenIPMI,
the /dev/imb driver from Intel, the /dev/ipmikcs driver from valinux,
direct user-space IOs, or the IPMI LAN interface if \-N is used.  

.SH OPTIONS
Command options are described in the man page for each command.
Below are a few of the common options.
.IP "-x"
Causes extra debug messages to be displayed.
.IP "-N nodename"
Nodename or IP address of the remote target system.  If a nodename is
specified, IPMI LAN interface is used.  Otherwise the local system
management interface is used.
.IP "-U rmt_user"
Remote username for the nodename given.  The default is a null username.
.IP "-P/-R rmt_pswd"
Remote password for the nodename given.  The default is a null password.
.IP "-E"
Use the remote password from Environment variable IPMI_PASSWORD.
.IP "-F drv_t"
Force the driver type to one of the followng:  
imb, va, open, gnu, landesk, lan, lan2, lan2i, kcs, smb.
Note that lan2i means lan2 with intelplus.
The default is to detect any available driver type and use it.
.IP "-J"
Use the specified LanPlus cipher suite (0 thru 17): 0=none/none/none,
1=sha1/none/none, 2=sha1/sha1/none, 3=sha1/sha1/cbc128, 4=sha1/sha1/xrc4_128,
5=sha1/sha1/xrc4_40, 6=md5/none/none, ... 14=md5/md5/xrc4_40.
Default is 3.
.IP "-T"
Use a specified IPMI LAN Authentication Type: 0=None, 1=MD2, 2=MD5, 4=Straight Password, 5=OEM.
.IP "-V"
Use a specified IPMI LAN privilege level. 1=Callback level, 2=User level, 3=Operator level, 4=Administrator level (default), 5=OEM level.
.IP "-Y"
Yes, do prompt the user for the IPMI LAN remote password.
Alternatives for the password are \-E or \-P.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
ipmiutil sel 
.br
Shows the IPMI System Event Log entries.
.PP
ipmiutil wdt 
.br
Shows the watchdog timer values.
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
ialarms(8) iconfig(8) icmd(8) idiscover(8) ievents(8) ifirewall(8) 
ifru(8) ifruset(8) ifwum(8) igetevent(8) ihealth(8) ihpm(8) 
ilan(8) ipicmg(8) ireset(8) isel(8) isensor(8) iserial(8) isol(8) isunoem(8) 
iwdt(8) ipmiutil(8) ipmi_port(8)

.SH WARNINGS
See http://ipmiutil.sourceforge.net/ for the latest version of ipmiutil and any bug fix list. 

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2009  Kontron America, Inc.
.PP
See the file COPYING in the distribution for more details
regarding redistribution.
.PP
This utility is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Andy Cress <arcress at users.sourceforge.net>
.br

