.TH IRESET 8 "Version 1.5: 01 Jul 2011"
.SH NAME
ipmiutil_reset \- perform a hardware reset on the system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ipmiutil reset [-bcdDefhijmnoprsuwxy -N node -U user -P/-R pswd -EFJTVY]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ipmiutil reset
is a program that uses IPMI commands to
perform a hardware reset of the chassis, or boot to a specific
device.
This utility can use either the /dev/ipmi0 driver from OpenIPMI,
the /dev/imb driver from Intel, the /dev/ipmikcs driver from valinux,
direct user-space IOs, or the IPMI LAN interface if \-N.

.SH OPTIONS
Command line options are described below.
.IP "-c"
Power Cycle the system chassis
.IP "-d"
Power Down the system chassis
.IP "-n"
Send NMI to the system
.IP "-u"
Power Up the system chassis
.IP "-r"
Hard Reset the system chassis
.IP "-D"
Do a soft shutdown of the OS, and then power down.
Note that remote soft shutdown (\-D \-N) for Intel S5000 baseboard requires
ipmiutil getevt \-a running on the target server.
.IP "-o"
Do a soft shutdown of the OS, and then reset.
Note that remote soft shutdown (\-o \-N) for Intel S5000 baseboard requires
ipmiutil getevt \-a running on the target server.
.IP "-k"
Do a cold reset to restart the BMC firmware.
.IP "-m 002000s"
Perform these function for a specific MC (e.g. bus 00, sa 20, lun 00).
The trailing character, if present, indicates SMI addressing if 's',
or IPMB addressing if 'i' or not present.
.IP "-b"
Do a hard reset and reboot to the BIOS Setup menu, for this reboot only.
.IP "-e"
Do a hard reset to EFI, if IPMI EFI boot is enabled, for this reboot only.
.IP "-f"
Do a hard reset to Floppy/Removable, for this reboot only.
.IP "-h"
Do a hard reset to a Hard Disk, for this reboot only.
.IP "-i"
Set the boot Initiator mailbox string, usually for PXE use.
The string must be less than 78 characters.
.IP "-j"
Set the IANA number used for the boot Initiator mailbox string.
.IP "-p"
Do a hard reset and network boot to PXE server, for this reboot only.
.IP "-s"
Do a hard reset and reboot to the Service/Diagnostic Partition, for this
reboot only.  Reboots to the default if no service partition is configured.
.IP "-v"
Do a hard reset to DVD/CDROM Media, for this reboot only.
.IP "-w"
Wait for BMC ready after a reset before exiting the utility.
.IP "-x"
Causes extra debug messages to be displayed.
.IP "-y"
Yes, try to persist any boot options used [\-befhprsv].  This requires the IPMI
firmware to ask the BIOS to change boot order settings, so it may not
be supported by all BMC firmware vendors.
.IP "-N nodename"
Nodename or IP address of the remote target system.  If a nodename is
specified, IPMI LAN interface is used.  Otherwise the local system
management interface is used.
.IP "-P/-R rmt_pswd"
Remote password for the nodename given.  The default is a null password.
.IP "-U rmt_user"
Remote username for the nodename given.  The default is a null username.
.IP "-E"
Use the remote password from Environment variable IPMI_PASSWORD.
.IP "-F drv_t"
Force the driver type to one of the followng:
imb, va, open, gnu, landesk, lan, lan2, lan2i, kcs, smb.
Note that lan2i means lan2 with intelplus.
The default is to detect any available driver type and use it.
.IP "-J"
Use the specified LanPlus cipher suite (0 thru 17): 0=none/none/none,
1=sha1/none/none, 2=sha1/sha1/none, 3=sha1/sha1/cbc128, 4=sha1/sha1/xrc4_128,
5=sha1/sha1/xrc4_40, 6=md5/none/none, ... 14=md5/md5/xrc4_40.
Default is 3.
.IP "-T"
Use a specified IPMI LAN Authentication Type: 0=None, 1=MD2, 2=MD5, 4=Straight Password, 5=OEM.
.IP "-V"
Use a specified IPMI LAN privilege level. 1=Callback level, 2=User level, 3=Operator level, 4=Administrator level (default), 5=OEM level.
.IP "-Y"
Yes, do prompt the user for the IPMI LAN remote password.
Alternatives for the password are \-E or \-P.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
ipmiutil(8) ialarms(8) iconfig(8) icmd(8) idiscover(8) ievents(8) ifru(8) igetevent(8) ihealth(8) ilan(8) isel(8) isensor(8) iserial(8) isol(8) iwdt(8)

.SH WARNINGS
See http://ipmiutil.sourceforge.net/ for the latest version of ipmiutil and any bug fix list.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2009  Kontron America, Inc.
.PP
See the file COPYING in the distribution for more details
regarding redistribution.
.PP
This utility is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Andy Cress <arcress at users.sourceforge.net>
.br

