.TH ISUNOEM 8 "Version 1.0: 09 Sep 2010"
.SH NAME
ipmiutil_sunoem \- OEM commands for Sun servers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ipmiutil sunoem [-mx -NPRUEFJTVY] commands"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ipmiutil sunoem commands
is a program that uses Sun OEM IPMI commands to
perform platform-specific functions.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-m 002000"
Show FRU for a specific MC (e.g. bus 00, sa 20, lun 00).
This could be used for PICMG or ATCA blade systems.
The trailing character, if present, indicates SMI addressing if 's',
or IPMB addressing if 'i' or not present.
.IP "-x"
Causes extra debug messages to be displayed.
.IP "-N nodename"
Nodename or IP address of the remote target system.  If a nodename is
specified, IPMI LAN interface is used.  Otherwise the local system
management interface is used.
.IP "-P/-R rmt_pswd"
Remote password for the nodename given.  The default is a null password.
.IP "-U rmt_user"
Remote username for the nodename given.  The default is a null username.
.IP "-E"
Use the remote password from Environment variable IPMI_PASSWORD.
.IP "-F drv_t"
Force the driver type to one of the followng:
imb, va, open, gnu, landesk, lan, lan2, lan2i, kcs, smb.
Note that lan2i means lan2 with intelplus.
The default is to detect any available driver type and use it.
.IP "-J"
Use the specified LanPlus cipher suite (0 thru 17): 0=none/none/none,
1=sha1/none/none, 2=sha1/sha1/none, 3=sha1/sha1/cbc128, 4=sha1/sha1/xrc4_128,
5=sha1/sha1/xrc4_40, 6=md5/none/none, ... 14=md5/md5/xrc4_40.
Default is 3.
.IP "-T"
Use a specified IPMI LAN Authentication Type: 0=None, 1=MD2, 2=MD5, 4=Straight Password, 5=OEM.
.IP "-V"
Use a specified IPMI LAN privilege level. 1=Callback level, 2=User level, 3=Operator level, 4=Administrator level (default), 5=OEM level.
.IP "-Y"
Yes, do prompt the user for the IPMI LAN remote password.
Alternatives for the password are \-E or \-P.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fIled\fP
.RS

These commands provide a way to get and set the status of LEDs
on a Sun Microsystems server.  Use 'sdr list generic' to get a
list of devices that are controllable LEDs.  The \fIledtype\fP
parameter is optional and not necessary to provide on the command
line unless it is required by hardware.
.TP
\fIget\fP \fBsensorid\fR [\fBledtype\fR]

Get status of a particular LED described by a Generic Device Locator
record in the SDR.  A sensorid of \fIall\fP will get the status
of all available LEDS.
.TP
\fIset\fP \fBsensorid\fR \fBledmode\fR [\fBledtype\fR]

Set status of a particular LED described by a Generic Device Locator
record in the SDR.  A sensorid of \fIall\fP will set the status
of all available LEDS to the specified \fIledmode\fP and \fIledtype\fP.
.TP
LED Mode is required for set operations:
.br
\fIOFF\fP         Off
.br
\fION\fP          Steady On
.br
\fISTANDBY\fP     100ms on 2900ms off blink rate
.br
\fISLOW\fP        1HZ blink rate
.br
\fIFAST\fP        4HZ blink rate
.TP
LED Type is optional:
.br
\fIOK2RM\fP       Ok to Remove
.br
\fISERVICE\fP     Service Required
.br
\fIACT\fP         Activity
.br
\fILOCATE\fP      Locate

.RE
.TP
\fIfan\fP \fIspeed\fP 0-100

Set system fan speed (PWM duty cycle).
.RS
.TP
\fIsshkey\fP
.RS
.TP
\fIset\fP \fBuserid\fR \fBkeyfile\fR

This command will allow you to specify an SSH key to use for a particular
user on the Service Processor.  This key will be used for CLI logins to
the SP and not for IPMI sessions.  View available users and their userids
with the 'user list' command.
.TP
\fIdel\fP \fBuserid\fR

This command will delete the SSH key for a specified userid.
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
ipmiutil(8) ialarms(8) iconfig(8) icmd(8) idiscover(8) ievents(8) ifru(8) igetevent(8) ihealth(8) ilan(8) ireset(8) isel(8) isensor(8) iserial(8) isol(8)

.SH WARNINGS
See http://ipmiutil.sourceforge.net/ for the latest version of ipmiutil and any bug fix list.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2009  Kontron America, Inc.
.PP
See the file COPYING in the distribution for more details
regarding redistribution.
.PP
This utility is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Andy Cress <arcress at users.sourceforge.net>
.br

