.TH ITSOL 8 "Version 1.0: 03 Feb 2012"
.SH NAME
ipmiutil_tsol \- Tyan IPMIv1.5 Serial-Over-LAN Console application

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ipmiutil tsol [recvip] [port=NUM] [ro|rw] [rows=NUM] [cols=NUM] [altterm]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This  command  allows Serial-over-LAN sessions to be established
with Tyan IPMIv1.5 SMDC such as the M3289 or M3290.  The default
command run with no arguments will establish default SOL session
back to local IP address.  Optional arguments may be supplied in
any order.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "<recv ipaddr>"
Send  receiver  IP  address  to SMDC which it will use to
send serial traffic to.   By  default  this  detects  the
local IP address and establishes two-way session.  Format
of ipaddr is XX.XX.XX.XX

.IP "port"
Configure UDP port to  receive  serial  traffic  on.
By default this is 6230.

.IP "ro|rw"
Confiure  SOL  session  as read-only or read-write.
Sessions are read-write by default.

.IP "rows"
Set terminal rows [default: rows=24]

.IP "cols"
Set terminal columns [default: cols=80]

.IP "altterm"
Alternate terminal setup    [default is off]


.SH "EXAMPLES"
ipmiutil tsol 192.168.1.1
.br
Starts a Tyan SOL console session to the IP address.
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
ipmiutil(8) ialarms(8) iconfig(8) icmd(8) idiscover(8) ievents(8) ifru(8) igetevent(8) ihealth(8) ilan(8) ireset(8) isel(8) isensor(8) iserial(8) iwdt(8)

.SH WARNINGS
See http://ipmiutil.sourceforge.net/ for the latest version of ipmiutil and any bug fix list.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2012  Kontron America, Inc.
.PP
See the file COPYING in the distribution for more details
regarding redistribution.
.PP
This utility is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Andy Cress <arcress at users.sourceforge.net>
.br

